# Information

The game information can be found over [at this
link](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/119856/button). For completion and in
case it goes missing, it's written down here too:

# Description

1814: Napoleon Buttonaparte and General Ludwig Von York Buttonburg wage a war
without mercy, and a new battle is about to begin. The armies are deployed,
awaiting orders to move, and in both headquarters the same speech is being
presented: "For you, Buttons, the goal is clear: End up on top!" Soon the battle
will commence, with each general trying to use the available spies as well as he
possibly can to dominate the final battlefield.

As you might guess from the punny names, Button Up! is a non-serious look at
combat during war -- so non-serious, mind you, that the pieces are
buttons, none of which are eliminated due to sucking chest wounds during
play. In fact, Button Up! is an abstract game in which players try to manipulate
the button troops to score more points than the opponent.

To set up each round of the game, randomly arrange nine buttons in a circle:
three red for Buttonaparte, three black for Von York Buttonburg, and three
neutral white spies. On a turn, the active player takes one stack that contains
a spy, then distributes that stack clockwise one button at a time, with the
buttons coming off the bottom of the stack as they're placed. Thus, the first
move is a single white button being placed on its neighbor to the left; if that
stack is moved on the second turn, the bottom button is placed on its left
neighbor, then the white button on top placed to the left of that. If the last
button placed matches color with the button it covers, the player who moved it
takes another turn. (This doesn't apply if the stack being moved contains more
buttons than remaining stacks; in this case, the final buttons are placed on the
last stack without rearranging their order.)

When only one stack remains, the round ends. Each button has strength equal to
its height in the stack; players sum their strength, and the player with the
most strength earns points equal to the difference between the two sums. If one
player now has 15 or more points, he wins; if not, shuffle the buttons and start
another round with the player who has the fewest points going first.

# GUI usage

To play with the GUI, launch the GUI executable, this will prompt you to pick
the player that goes first. It's up to the users who goes first in the first
round. In the consecutive round, the player with the least amount of points in
the previous can pick who goes first, as such, the prompt will ask again who
goes first for each new round.

The game is setup with all 9 buttons being shared among each stack of the
game. Clicking on a stack will move a button stack right if possible. This goes
on until a stack is full and the users are prompted for another round until
someone reaches 15 victory points. Then, the game has ended.
